.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: 0BSD
.TH REN-TUI 1 "2026" "ren-tui 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ren-tui \- terminal LXMF / NomadNet client for Reticulum
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ren-tui
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ren-tui
is an experimental terminal client for LXMF messaging and NomadNet static page browsing
on the Reticulum network. It uses librns and a custom immediate-mode TUI.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-V ", " \-\-version
Show version and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-paths
Print resolved config, identity, conversation, and RNS paths, then exit.
.TP
.BI \-\-config " PATH"
App config file. Default:
.IR ~/.config/ren\-tui/config
(Unix) or
.IR %APPDATA%\\ren\-tui\\config
(Windows).
.TP
.BI \-\-data\-dir " PATH"
Data directory for config, identity, conversations, and logs.
Default:
.IR ~/.config/ren\-tui
(Unix) or
.IR %APPDATA%\\ren\-tui
(Windows).
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-rns\-config " " \fIPATH\fR
Reticulum config file. Overrides
.BR REN_RNS_CONFIG .
.TP
.B \-\-reset\-config
Rewrite the app config file with defaults (keeps identity).
.TP
.B \-\-reset\-conversations
Delete stored conversations under the data directory.
.TP
.B \-\-reset\-identity
Delete the local identity file (a new one is created on next start).
.TP
.B \-\-reset
Reset config and conversations. Does not remove identity unless
.B \-\-reset\-identity
is also given.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B REN_RNS_CONFIG
Override Reticulum config path.
.TP
.B REN_UI
Force UI color mode:
.BR full ,
.BR 256 ,
.BR compat ,
or
.BR dumb .
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
Disable color when set.
.TP
.B HOME
Used to resolve
.IR ~/.config/ren\-tui
on Unix.
.TP
.B USERPROFILE
.TQ
.B APPDATA
Used to resolve the Windows data directory
.IR %APPDATA%\\ren\-tui .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/ren-tui/config
Plaintext INI-style app config (Unix / macOS).
.TP
.I %APPDATA%\\ren-tui\\config
Plaintext INI-style app config (Windows).
.TP
.I ~/.config/ren-tui/identity
Local LXMF identity material.
.TP
.I ~/.config/ren-tui/conversations/
Per-peer msgpack conversation stores.
.TP
.I ~/.config/ren-tui/librns.log
Redirected librns stderr log.
.TP
.I ~/.reticulum-go/config
Preferred Reticulum config when present.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ren-listen (1)
.SH BUGS
Experimental. Not ready for production use.
